Don't loop in jobs (#181)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2023/2023-02-13-try-not-to-loop-through-associations-inside-jobs.md

---
title: "Try not to loop through associations inside jobs"
description: "Your local data isn’t the same as in production"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:

>   base: '2022/try-not-to-loop-through-associations-inside-jobs'

Author: ```suggestion
  base: '2023/try-not-to-loop-through-associations-inside-jobs'
```

Author: 2023 images

  alt: "Roller coaster loops"
  credit: "Priscilla Du Preez"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/FOsina4f7qM"

---

> One of the downside of using an level of abstraction above your database is that it’s easy to accidentally give yourself performance headaches via running multiple very similar queries.

Reviewer: *downsides

*_a_ level

A little confused from the first sentence. Mainly, what you mean by "using a level of abstraction above your database."

Author: ```suggestion
One of the downsides of using Ruby to interact with your database, rather than SQL directly, is that it’s easy to accidentally give yourself performance headaches via running multiple very similar queries. Although the advantages of using Active Record (or something similar) are generally worth it!
```

> This is typically referred to as an n+1 problem, which is most often seen when you display an Active Record object in a view and show all of the associated records that `belong_to` to it. We often solve this by putting heavier database work in asynchronous jobs.

Reviewer: *N+1

*problem. They occur most often when you...

*...They tend to be solved by

Author: ```suggestion
This is typically referred to as an N+1 problem. they occur most often seen when you display an Active Record object in a view and show all of the associated records that `belong_to` to it. When lots of records _do_ need to be loaded or saved to the database you can putting this heavier database work in asynchronous jobs.
```

> However, it’s too easy to underestimate how different production data is from your local machine and end up with long running loops _inside_ those jobs.

Reviewer: *and therefore it's easy to end up with long-running loops...

Author: ```suggestion
However, it’s too easy to underestimate how different production data is from your local machine and therefore it‘s easy to end up with long running loops _inside_ those jobs.
```

> This is typically referred to as an N+1 problem. they occur most often seen when you display an Active Record object in a view and show all of the associated records that `belong_to` to it. When lots of records _do_ need to be loaded or saved to the database you can putting this heavier database work in asynchronous jobs.

Author: ```suggestion
This is typically referred to as an N+1 problem. They occur most often seen when you display an Active Record object in a view and show all of the associated records that `belong_to` to it. When lots of records _do_ need to be loaded or saved to the database you can putting this heavier database work in asynchronous jobs.
```

## Instead of…

…looping through lots of Active Record objects and updating them, even in a job:

```ruby
class UpdateManyCommentsJob < ApplicationJob
  def perform(post)
    post.comments.each do |comment|
      comment.update(name: comment.name.downcase)
    end
  end
end
```

## Use…

> …enqueue each update in it's own job:

Reviewer: * ##Enqueue...

..each update... 

??

Author: ```suggestion
…a separate job for each update:
```

```ruby
class UpdateManyCommentsJob < ApplicationJob
  def perform(post)
    post.comments.each do |comment|
      UpdateSingleCommentJob.perform_later(comment)
    end
  end
end

class UpdateSingleCommentJob < ApplicationJob
  def perform(comment)
    comment.update(name: comment.name.downcase)
  end
end
```

## Why?

> This is about parallelizing your work as much as possible and keeping each element of the work small. In this solution

Reviewer: Random extra line here?

Author: ```suggestion
This is about parallelizing your work as much as possible and keeping each element of the work small.
```

> Mike Perham, the author of [sidekiq](https://sidekiq.org)—who knows a thing or two about jobs—[suggests](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Best-Practices#3-embrace-concurrency) that you “design your jobs so you can run lots of them in parallel”. In the proposed solution you end up with a single parent job enqueuing lots of sub-jobs rather than one long-running job making lots of database calls. This results in multiple benefits.

Reviewer: *and who therefore knows a thing or two.. ?

Author: ```suggestion
Mike Perham, the author of [sidekiq](https://sidekiq.org)—who therefore knows a thing or two about jobs—[suggests](https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Best-Practices#3-embrace-concurrency) that you “design your jobs so you can run lots of them in parallel”. In the proposed solution you end up with a single parent job enqueuing lots of sub-jobs rather than one long-running job making lots of database calls. This results in multiple benefits.
```

Providing you are running multiple workers on your background queue the total time taken to do the updates will be greatly reduced as the individual updates can be done in parallel, rather than serially in the loop.

In the case where a post has _a lot_ of comments, you also avoid a single long-running job that is hard to retry and may cause memory issues.

> Consider loops within jobs a potential source of bugs in production and be wary.

Reviewer: I think this whole section can be a lot tighter. Each paragraph feels unnecessarily wordy!

## Why not?

> In this contrived example, it would probably be fine. And in most cases running a small loop of updates on a `has_many` association in a job is also fine. Until it isn’t, in production.

Reviewer: *In most cases... This is only a problem until it isn't fine in production.

(Most examples are contrived. Probably not worth mentioning that..?)

Author: ```suggestion
In most cases running a small loop of updates on a `has_many` association in a job is also fine. Until it isn’t, in production. And this is the point.
```

> Depending on the job you might be able to use other Rails features. You could use `update_all` to do all the updates for an association in one SQL query, but the update will likely have to be simple and no callbacks will run on the associated records.

Reviewer: Or perhaps using `in_batches`?

Author: You can see the future.
